Alright! In this video, we are gonna
take a look at setting up Swagger or the
Swagger documentation for our project
here, and we are gonna be utilizing a
library from Spring Fox, and that is
going to basically give us a tool so
that's gonna inspect our Spring
Project, and then, generate the Swagger
documentation for us. So, the first thing
that we wanna do is come in here and
add in the new dependencies for it.
We want the springfox-swagger2.
It's the first dependency that we want.
You can see that there's several
versions there. We are gonna take the
2.7.1. And while I'm here, I'm gonna go
in also and add in, there's a separate
dependency for springfox-swagger2. I
actually want the swagger-ui
and you can see, we now have the two
dependencies here. And one thing that we
want to hear is I've checked, and
surprisingly, the version is not curated
by Spring Boot guys. I think there's a
competing documentation library out
there. But for some reason, that's not
there, and what I don't like about this
current setup is that we have the
version number defined in two spots. So
what we can do is come in here to
IntelliJ, and we'll go into Refactor and
say Extract. We're gonna extract that
property.
Try that one more time. What we wanna
do is come in here, and you got a
highlight. Get right on the number
there and go right click. Go to Refactor.
Then, we're gonna say, Extract and we
wanna extract that to a property. You
can see that it's giving us a suggestive
name there, so I'm gonna say OK, and now,
it's asking me if I wanna replace that
other occurrence. I would say replace,
and we can see that, now we have a Maven
property defined, and it actually is swagger-ui
and I'm gonna just change that a
little bit. Just swagger-version. We'll
come up here and rename that
property. And now, we're happy. So, just
trying not to repeat ourselves there,
Just a good habit of that. So, now that we
have the Maven Dependency set up, what we
can do is come in and add in
configuration. Now, I don't have a
configuration class in here yet, so I can
come in and say New Package.
Now, I'm gonna come over and create
the configuration class. Do New Java Class.
Just call that SwaggerConfig. Now, we
do want this to be a Configuration class.
So market it as that. Now, to enable Swagger,
what we need to do is come up here to
EnableSwagger2 and that's gonna
bring up Swagger support in our project.
So, let's start this up and take a look
at the documentation that we do get by
default.
Now, we can see that there's a little bit
of chatter in their Swagger resources
has been configured, and this URL path,
the v2/api-docs that is a Swagger
documentation. So let's take a look
at that. So, I already have it up here.
We'll do a refresh. And now, we can see, we
get a lot of rich JSON information about
our API, that has been exposed inside of
Spring. Now, we can get a whole little
more configuration there, and what we can
do, I'll just show you how to set up some
of the configuration.
Declare @Bean.
We're gonna return back at Docket and
this is the Swagger configuration. We'll
just call it api.
And say return new Docket.
And the DocumentationType, I'll show
you this real quick, if we we can jump
into that, and see how that there's
several different documentation types. We
do have support for older versions of
Swagger, and then, a Spring web version.
But, right now, we're gonna focus on using
Swagger 2. That is the most current and
most modern. We're not gonna look at the
legacy stuff, and this just affects out
how the JSON output is formulated. So,
that affects this output. So, we'll
come back over here and leave that.
I'm saying any API's, any request
handler, so we're gonna allow that. Now
you could specify some here, some
additional information here.
And I'm just setting this up as an
example. We're gonna get the exact same
results. But if we had specific API's
that we wanted to expose, we could do so
here. If we wanna limit them, in some
ways, so there's a lot of rich
functionality. So, if we have like a
thousand APIs, we don't wanna expose
a hundred of them for uncertain set of
criteria. We can totally do it right here.
But I wanna show you this. I'll include
a link to the Swagger documentation.
There's a lot of really rich support
here. I'm not going to dive at that deep
into. But this is kind of the standard
Swagger configuration. I want to show you
how to set that up, and that is to return
back the Docket object into the Spring
Context, and that's gonna configure
Swagger. So, we'll go ahead and do a
refresh on this.
So that we restarted. Let's go ahead and
take a look and make sure that we are up,
so we're still getting the same
information, which is exactly what we
want. I just wanted to show you that
Swagger configuration object. If you do
need additional control over the
Swagger configuration, this is where you
do so right in here using this Docket
API.